---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.11.5
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Week 00: Start here

MATH 131: Introduction to Python is a 1 unit, 5 week course offered at
Chico State through the Department of Mathematics and Statistics.  The
course consists of Lessons, with accompanying Notes, and Assignments.
We will learn to code in the programming language Python using Google
Colab notebooks.

Lessons are the webpages found on this website, named after each week
of the course.  Lessons contain the explanations of what's to come in
the Assignments.  You are currently reading the Lesson associated with
Week 00.  There is one Lesson for each of the five weeks of this
course.

The Lessons have associated Notes.  Each Note is a Google
Colab notebook, e.g. Week 01 Notes.  Notes are par-baked Colab
notebooks that are meant to provide you with a space to follow along
with the programming in the Lesson.  Google Colab notebooks are
discussed in more detail below.

Each week has an Assignment, e.g. Week 02 Assignment, starting with
Week 01.  You are responsible for completing the Assignments
throughout the course. Each Lesson will have a link to the associated
Assignment for you to complete.

For assignments, we will use Google Colab with your
username@mail.csuchico.edu account (same password as your
username@csuchico.edu account).


## Google Colab

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com" target="_blank">Google
Colab</a> provides a notebook environment where the user can develop a
reproducible document that blends text and code together.  Such
reproducible documents are popular in the world of data science,
statistics, machine learning, and the various applied sciences that
use programming.  By combining text and code, you can walk (via text)
your audience through an analysis (usually via code and/or math),
showing the exact code you used to draw any conclusions about the data
or otherwise.

We will use Google Colab for free, as part of your campus Google
account username@mail.csuchico.edu.  The free aspect means we'll have
to deal with some issues that don't otherwise come about if we were to
install Python on our own personal machines.  I, Edward, have made the
active choice to try Google Colab instead of teaching you how to
install Python on your personal machine, because I believe we can get
started faster this way.  If you want to follow along with this course
using different tools, and you understand the consequences you face
for doing so, please see your options on the page [Week 06 and
beyond](./and-beyond.md).

From here, there's really no better way to learn about Google Colab
than to go touch it.  Here's a link to <a
href="https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1weKuFgd98W76BloyuuB4d2HudB5KLYew?usp=sharing"
target="_blank">the Colab notebook associated with Week 00: Start
here</a>.
